"Being denied boarding can add stress and uncertainty to travel plans and the goal of this dashboard
 is to help you understand how you can be best prepared for these sorts of situations and hopefully, 
avoid them all together."

denied_boarding.db_plot_perc_denied_over_time()
"The Covid-19 pandemic caused a huge disruption to air travel as we knew it and led to a lot of 
uncertainty around bookings, fares, and more. To first understand how denied boarding was impacted 
by the pandemic, this visual shows the percent of denied boarding between 2018 and 2021. Denied 
boarding most often happens when a flight has been overbooked, which explains why we see the lowest 
point of this plot in the summer of 2020. Due to the increase in travel restrictions and the spread of 
covid-19, it is likely that very few flights were fully booked, which would mean denials would be 
unnecessary. We see this percentage start to climb following the summer of 2021, and the percentage 
continues to increase through the end of 2021. Another important piece of information that can be 
gleaned from this graph, is that denials have been largely volunatry, meaning passengers have offered
to give up their seat on a flight in exchange for some form of compensation." 

denied_boarding.db_plot_perc_denied_by_carrier()
"A possible factor in denied boarding is airline carrier. This plot shows the percentage of passengers
that were denied boarding from 2018-2021 by their carrier. From this we can see that Endeaver Air
had the highest percentage of denials; however, Envoy Air was the carrier that had the highest
percentage of involuntary denials."

denied_boarding.db_plot_total_denied_by_carrier()
"This next visualization shows the total passengers that flew with a given airline versus the total 
passengers that were denied boarding by that airline. From this we can see that both Delta and American
had a large number of passengers denied boarding between 2018-2021, while United and Southwest had 
a similar amount of total passengers, but significantly fewer denials."

denied_boarding.db_plot_denial_type_by_carrier()
"Knowing whether or not denied boardings were voluntary or involuntary can help to understand whether 
or not you may want to fly with a specific airline. Additionally, within involuntary denials, there are
instances of passengers receiving compensation and not receiving compensation, which might be an 
additional factor to consider when selecting a carrier. Take Allegiant Airlines for example, 
they may not have raised any red flags so far, but if you look at their denials, over 1/4 of 
passengers were involuntarily denied boarding and provided no compensation! Explore the figure below
to understand which airline carriers might provide a secure and stress free travel experience."

denied_boarding.db_plot_denied_compensation_reason()
"When viewing the figure above, you can see which airlines are frequently involuntarily denying 
passengers and how often they are providing compensation when they do. It may also be helpful to 
understand why passengers were denied compensation in the case they were involuntarly denied boarding. 
This visualization shows the breakdown by carrier of the reason for denied compensation within these 
passengers. Explore the figure below to determine whether or not the reason for denied compensation
would be satisfactory for your travel needs."

denied_boarding.db_plot_comp_voluntary_by_carrier()
"The final factor you might be interested in when considering the possibility of being denied boarding 
on your upcoming trip is the amount of compensation provided. The visualization below shows the 
total passengers who voluntarily gave up their seat on an airline versus the total compensation that 
they were provided. We can see that JetBlue airlines had the highest average compensation, with 
Virgin as a close second. Alternatively, Frontier, Hawaiian, and Horizon all had an average 
compensation of almost nothing."










